So now, let's discuss two more new terminologies.
One, search item.
So search item is nothing but all the fields that are
available to you and another thing is search command.
A search command is a command that is available in SPL that can run
something on the search items or some logic on the search items.
So let me take you on this official Splunk website
again which has a list of search commands written for you.
A few that are extremely important and I keep using them over and over again is top.
Now, I'm going to just search for it
because that is going to be easier than scrolling through the entire documentation.
But here, you have details of the space
the most common values of a field which is the opposite of rare.
Rare does just the opposite of that.
So you can go and check the documentation for that.
It says, displays a least common values of a field.
Now, some more commands that I have used a lot from Splunk are Table.
Let me just look for that as well.
Table. It creates a table using the specified fields,
and another one would be stats.
Now, stats works on timestamps or timestamps mostly.
That was not stats, that was tstats,
so I'm looking for stats.
Gostats, mstats, okay.
Now, this provides statistics grouped optionally by fields.
So this is something that you would also use often or at least I have used often.
So now, let's try out a few from here.
So here I have my dataset.
How you would take all the result from
the previous query to the next is by using a pipe operator.
So I would use a pipe.
Pipe is available to you above the backslash button and now you get
a list of different kinds of commands that you can
run on whatever was a result from here.
So again, do not be afraid of the pipe operator.
All it does is it takes the value from the left hand side and
it makes it available for any of the commands that you run after the pipe operation.
So let's try to use top on this,
but before that I need a search query.
So let me look at this dataset.
So I see something called HHDI here.
So I'm going to look for that.
I would just look for HHID equals 046612,
and I'm going to first run this at this point in time, this entire set.
Without this particular search query that I added is 337,520 events.
Now, that I've added this for all time,
it changed to five.
So now, you know that the search was successful.
Let's try out one command and see how that works.
So now, I'm going to use the pipe operator which is
going to take all the data or all of the search that was available,
search result that was available from here and give
that to the next part of the pipe to run a command on.
So let's start with top.
I'm going to try to run this on HHID value and see what result this is going to give us.
So here, it gave us the count,
it gave us the percent,
it gave us the value of HHID,
and it gave us the exact count.
Now, you see since this is top,
the maximum is on the top.
The maximum count is available on the top.
If I change this to rare,
it should do the opposite of what it did.
So here, it is listed in ascending order which is the count is
the least to the max and I'm going to go back to top.
So it allows me to count or get the maximum count and the percentage for that as well.
I hope you'll learn how to use top.
I would recommend that you try the other search commands as well.
They come in extremely handy and
the more analytics questions you come across from in your day-to-day life,
the more you'll get to use these commands and the
more comfortable you're going to get with them over a period of time.
So as a challenge,
I need you to try out at least three or four of these commands
and see how you can interact with the data
or what types of analytics you can draw out of them.